---
date: 2021-01-09 07:20:35 +0300
title: 'Patient Voice Check-in '
subtitle: NLP, Machine Learning, Voice Recognition with frontend
image: /uploads/screenshot-2024-02-17-at-5-28-33-pm.png
---
### Approach

The project involves creating a patient check-in system for a walk-in clinic using voice recognition integrated within a frontend flask web application. This approach allows patients to register their visit details through voice commands, aiming to enhance the patient experience by reducing wait times and streamlining the check-in process. The system captures vital visit information, such as patient name, reason for visit, symptoms, and appointment time, through a speech-to-text interface. Once the details are confirmed by the patient, they are recorded in a structured format, ready for clinic staff to access and manage.

### Problem Solved

This solution addresses several challenges faced by walk-in clinics, including long queues, manual data entry errors, and the need for efficient patient flow management. By enabling voice-driven check-ins, the system reduces the administrative burden on staff, minimizes entry errors, and improves overall clinic efficiency. Patients benefit from a more accessible and user-friendly registration process, potentially reducing stress and wait times. The integration of voice recognition technology also caters to individuals with physical disabilities, making the check-in process more inclusive.

### Tools Used

* **Flask**: A lightweight WSGI web application framework used to build the web interface and handle HTTP requests.
* **Speech Recognition (sr)**: A library that facilitates the conversion of spoken language into text, used to capture patient check-in information through voice.
* **gTTS (Google Text-to-Speech)**: A tool that converts text into spoken words, used to communicate with patients during the check-in process and confirm their details.
* **Pygame**: Utilized for audio playback functionality, allowing the system to provide auditory feedback to users.
* **Pandas**: A powerful data manipulation and analysis library for Python, used to manage patient data in a structured DataFrame, ensuring efficient processing and storage.
* **JavaScript**: Employed on the frontend for handling user interactions with the web application, including voice recording and displaying real-time information such as estimated wait times.
* **HTML/CSS**: Used to design and structure the web application's user interface, ensuring a user-friendly experience.